---
title: Save Images From Your Clipboard to Disk
tags: [cli]
---

Taking screenshots is a common task when working on an engineering team. Sharing
in-progress work, showing bugs or needed changes, or finding design inspiration
from another web app. While often you just want to send a message with the
screenshot, sometimes it's helpful to save them to disk for later use.

For quite a while now, my solution was a combination of
[Shottr](https://shottr.cc/) and
[`pngpaste`](https://github.com/jcsalterego/pngpaste). Shottr is an amazing
macOS screenshot app with features including comments, adding arrows and shapes,
showing measurements, blurring sensitive information, and so much more.
`pngpaste` is a CLI tool that will save image contents from your clipboard to
disk. Together, these tools are a match made in heaven.

Most of the time, I use Shottr in a purely copy/paste capacity meaning I take a
screenshot, close Shottr which copies the image to my clipboard, then paste it
in Slack to send it to a teammate. Simple, no leftover files on my system, just
an awesome workflow. However, sometimes I want to save files to disk for later
use, or to upload to my website with another CLI tool I built. This is when I
use `pngpaste` which I not only can use manually, but also I can integrate it
with other shell scripts.

I recently re-built `pngpaste` in Rust as the existing `pngpaste` project was
messing up the background color of images. Feel free to take a look at the
project [on GitHub](https://github.com/mskelton/pngpaste)!

```bash
pngpaste output.png
```
