---
title: Rust Pattern Matching Is Beautiful
tags: [rust]
---

I've been working on a Rust side project lately and as I always do when I
write Rust code, I find myself loving pattern matching even more than I did
before. It seems like such a simple thing, sort of just a better if
statement, but the more you use it, the more you realize just how powerful
and elegant it really is.

One example from this project is the need to parse a piece of text to
determine if a user is adding or removing a tag. If they specify an
argument like `+work` it means they are adding the `work` tag, and `-home`
would indicate they are removing the `home` tag.

This might look something like this:

```rust
pub fn parse_tag(text: &String) -> Option<(Operator, String)> {
    let mut chars = text.chars();
    let operator = match chars.next() {
        Some('+') => Operator::Add,
        Some('-') => Operator::Remove,
        _ => return None,
    };

    return match chars.next() {
        Some(' ') | None => None,
        Some(_) => Some((operator, text[1..].to_string())),
    };
}
```

In the first `match` statement, we check the first character for the `+` or
`-` sign, and set the operator variable to the appropriate value. However,
if the first character is neither of those, the value is not a tag, and we
can return `None` from within the match statement and the entire function
will stop. This might seem trivial, but the alternative is assigning the
operator variable to `None`, then performing additional logic to return in
our function.

The second `match` statement shows another great feature: multiple match
patterns. If there are no more characters in the text, or the next
character is whitespace, we want to return `None` from our function.
However, we don't have to list these as separate match "arms", instead we
can combine them with `|` keeping our code extremely simple and easy to
understand.
