---
title: React State Transitions With Animations
tags: [css, react]
---

A common challenge in React is managing state for components that have
animations. For example, closing a modal after it transitions closed,
resetting the state of a copy button after the animation finishes, or
removing temporary height/width from expandable containers during
open/close transitions.

There are a handful of approaches to solving these, including `setTimeout`,
using libraries like `framer-motion` or `react-transition-group`, but many
of these solutions involve a lot more runtime code, less performant
animations, or inconsistent animation timing. Thankfully, the solution in
most cases is a simple yet often forgotten technique: `onAnimationEnd`.

The `onAnimationEnd` event in React (`animationend` DOM event) allows you
to wait for an animation to finish before executing some code. Using the
example of a modal, you can wait for the close animation to finish before
removing the modal from the DOM.

```jsx
<div onAnimationEnd={() => removeModal()}>{/* ... */}</div>
```

What is great about this technique is that the timing is fully managed by
the animation so you don't have to sync a CSS animation with a JS timeout
or similar. Everything just works no matter if the animation takes 100
milliseconds or 3 seconds.

> [!INFO Further reading]  
> [React ARIA](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/index.html) has
> a great example of how to extend this technique to support when
> animations are present and when they are not. Their
> [useAnimation](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/blob/4ae2831f9487958511c88b9ebe672b5650042d7e/packages/react-aria-components/src/utils.tsx#L276)
> hook is a great building block for shared components where you want
> consistent handling of close events even if an animation is not present.
